1.
First step is to set up the assistant which is up and running & then needs to be
personalized with the next content that is added.
2.
User details and preferences are open ended ? or do we get proper inputs from the user
on what he likes and what he doesn’t? Or do we have to extract user profile from the
unstructured input that that they share and generate a user profile based on the inputs
Ans: As I understand this needs to be done by AI when we pass the unstructured data to
the user where it can parse the info and create a personalized user profile
3.
Then this profile which is stored should be used for custom response generation. -> This
profile should be saved in memory and should be constantly updated.
https://github.com/Shubhamsaboo/awesome-llm-apps/blob/main/local_chatgpt_with_memory/lo
cal_chatgpt_memory.py
What does it mean by custom retrieval logic? Contextual information here means whatever is
the memory of LLM from that fetch the user preferences for the query asked and then generate
the response to user queries.
Deliverables:
Once a new model is launched you should be able to upload unstructured data -> create custom
user profile -> For every query retrieve most relevant preferences based on the user profile and
prepare the response? The retrieval here is from memory right??
What do you mean by any open source library? Likes of embed chain as well where building a
RAG system is one highly effective.
Streamlit/Shiny for UI Design.
API functionality, Load, data types for unstructured data - unittest
Vector DB, FAISS - can store.
Memory Store - MongoDB
For pdf unstructured library
Questions and Answers
Question: Can I use the likes of OpenAI Models or something local?
Answer: Yes, you are free to use any model.
Question: Currently, can we restrict the scope to PDFs and blogs? If not, what are the
different unstructured data sources the Assistant should handle?
Answer: Sure, restricting to PDFs and blogs is fine for the task.
Question: What specific user details and preferences should the AI Assistant extract and
store from the unstructured data?
Answer: User details and preferences are kind of open-ended, and this is where you can get a
lot creative.
Question: Are there any restrictions or guidelines on which open-source libraries can be
used for this project?
Answer: There is no restriction on using open-source libraries. Feel free to use any library of
your choice.
Bonus:
Question: Do you have any specific requirements or expectations for the custom retrieval
logic?
Answer: No specific requirements. Again, we want you to be smart and creative about how to do
the retrieval of memories.
Question: Should the retrieval logic prioritize recent interactions (chat history based) or a
specific type of user information (user information retrieval from data uploaded)? Or
should it focus on profile-relevant information extraction?
Answer: Great question. The candidate is expected to take a call on this based on their
understanding of how humans think about memory.
Mem0 Interview Project
Goal
Develop a personalized AI Assistant that can understand and remember user details and
preferences from unstructured data sources, providing a tailored conversational experience.
Requirements
●
Data Ingestion: The AI Assistant should allow users to input various unstructured data
sources, such as blog post content, personal bio etc.
●
User Profiling: From the ingested data, the AI Assistant must deduce relevant user details
and preferences, creating a personalized user profile.
●
Contextual Response Generation: During conversations, the AI Assistant should recall and
leverage the user's profile information to provide contextualized and personalized
responses.
●
End-to-End Functionality: Implement a chat CLI where the user inputs natural language
queries, which can perform the following tasks:
○
Save something in memory
○
Deduce memory from unstructured text
○
Update memory
○
Delete memory
Process the user input with your algorithm and return relevant responses.
Bonus
●
Custom Retrieval Logic: Develop a unique logic for fetching the most relevant contextual
information in response to user queries.
●
UI Design: Showcase your design prowess by creating a custom UI to show off your full
stack skills.
●
Innovation Encouraged: We urge you to think outside the box. Impress us with your
creativity and technical skills. The sky is merely the starting point.
●
Unit tests: Add unit tests if you can. We would love to see unit tests for your functionality.
Deliverables
●
CLI interface: Develop a fully functional CLI where a user can interact with the AI assistant,
ask questions, and store relevant information in memory for personalization.
●
Architecture Diagram: Provide a screenshot of an architecture diagram, created with tools
like Excalidraw or using pen paper, detailing your strategy.
●
Code Quality: Submit well-documented code as a GitHub repository, accompanied by a
comprehensive README. Ensure your code is of high quality.
●
GitHub Repository: Send us a link to your GitHub repository so that we can checkout the
code.
●
Areas of improvements: While we understand that this is just an assignment, tell us what
approaches you might have taken if you had one month to work on this problem
statement to improve the memory system.
Getting started
●
Feel free to use any open source library of your choice.
Timeline
●
We have tested and found that the project can be fully finished in less than 72 hours.
●
Nevertheless, what matters is the final quality of the deliverable and showing a well
thought methodology, proper working and task completion accuracy.
●
You have 4 days to submit the project from when you start (please send an email to
founders@mem0.ai when you start the project to start tracking).
ID
Name
Age
Department
Salary
101
Alice
25
HR
50000
102
Bob
30
Engineering
70000
103
Charlie
35
Marketing
60000
104
David
40
Sales
65000
105
Eve
28
Finance
72000
ID
Name Age Departmen
t
Salar
y
101 Alice
25
HR
50000
102 Bob
30
Engineerin
g
70000
103 Charli
e
35
Marketing
60000
104 David 40
Sales
65000
105 Eve
28
Finance
72000
